The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Log of the Ark by Noah, by 
I. L. (Irwin Leslie) Gordon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Log of the Ark by Noah
       Hieroglypics by Ham

Author: I. L. (Irwin Leslie) Gordon

Illustrator: A. J. (Alfred Joseph) Frueh

Release Date: November 4, 2019 [EBook #60630]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LOG OF THE ARK BY NOAH ***




Produced by MFR, Paul Marshall and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)






Transcriber’s Notes:

  Underscores “_” before and after a word or phrase indicate _italics_
    in the original text.
  Small capitals have been converted to SOLID capitals.
  Typographical errors have been silently corrected.




THE LOG OF THE ARK


[Illustration]

[Illustration: “_A large crowd came down to see us off_.”]

[Illustration:

                           THE LOG OF THE ARK
                                BY NOAH
                          HIEROGLYPHICS BY HAM
               EXCAVATED BY I. L. GORDON and A. J. FRUEH
                        E. P. DUTTON & COMPANY.
                       681-FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK]

                               COPYRIGHT
                                   BY
                         E. P. DUTTON & COMPANY
                                  1915

[Illustration]

_The Knickerbocker Press_

_New York_

[Illustration]




WHO’S WHO ON THE ARK


    CAPTAIN             _Myself_
    FIRST OFFICER       _Shem_
    SECOND OFFICER      _Ham_
    THIRD OFFICER       _Japheth_
    PURSER              _Myself_
    WIRELESS OPERATOR   _Shem_
    CHIEF ENGINEER      _Ham_
    CHIEF STEWARD       _Japheth_
    VETERINARIAN        _Myself_
    CHIEF COOK          _Mrs. Noah_
    BOTTLE WASHER       _Mrs. Shem_
    STEWARDESS          _Mrs. Ham_
    LAUNDRESS           _Mrs. Japheth_
    STOKERS             _Automatic_
    CARGO               _Live Stock_

[Illustration]




THE LOG OF THE ARK


WEDNESDAY, B.C. 2349. COURSE—to Ararat.
WEATHER—clear and rain. WIND—starting to blow.
SEA—calm. SHIP’S RUN—1 league.

REMARKS:

Weighed anchor: 2240 pounds.—My rheumatism hurt. I just knew it would
rain.—A large crowd came down to see us off. Received delegation of S.
P. C. A. They presented me with a gold-handled umbrella.—Someone sent
the women folks a bunch of American beauties.—Many of my neighbours
say I am crazy.—It began to rain—crowd dispersed.—There is a lot
of hubbub in getting an Ark off.—Half an hour late in starting. Ham
doesn’t understand some of the levers.—Ship’s band played the national
anthems as we sailed away.—Sent sailing lists to all my friends. Gave
them to the pilot to mail.—Dropped pilot at 7.30 P.M. I was
sorry to see him go.—Cargo all well and quiet.—I wonder if I will be
seasick?

THURSDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—higher. SEA—still calm. SHIP’S RUN—2.

REMARKS:

Rained all last night and today. I didn’t sleep well. Mrs. Noah insists
upon having the lower berth. I had to climb up top. If I fall and break
my neck it will be serious.—Spent morning in smoking-room reading
steamer letters. Several magazines offer half a shekel a word for my
story. Some vaudeville manager wants me to go on the stage if I get
away with the trip. The University of Bagdad ask me to will them my
brains.—Mrs. Japheth forgot one of her steamer trunks, and wants us
to go back.—Ham says he thinks he knows which levers will stop the
Ark.—All well on board.

FRIDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—same as yesterday. SEA—very calm. SHIP’S
RUN—1½. WIRELESS REPORT; Mountain resorts doing good
business. Hotels all crowded.

REMARKS:

We ran aground this morning. Mrs. Noah and the girls were badly
frightened. I signalled for a tug which pulled us off. The captain
wanted to know about the salvage. I told him to see the owners or the
insurance company. Doubt if he ever will be paid.—I can’t sleep very
well. The bunk is too narrow. I don’t like steamer bunks any more than
I do a Pullman.—Mrs. Noah complains of the motion of the ship. I
haven’t felt it, but the throbbing of the engines is annoying.—Didn’t
eat much today.—Cargo still quiet. I’m a little worried about the two
caterpillars. What if they are not mates?

SATURDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—shifted. SEA—same as yesterday. SHIP’S
RUN—2. WIRELESS REPORT—C. Q. D. Antioch.

REMARKS:

The rooster woke me up this morning.—Oldest inhabitants can’t remember
when it has rained so hard.—There’s not much fun standing on the
bridge for four hours at a time. I thought all the captain of an Ark
had to do was talk to the ladies. There’s some responsibility connected
with a vessel of this size, and such a mixed cargo. It might have a
serious effect on posterity should we be wrecked.—All indications
point to unusually high water. We passed several mountains today.
Mountains do look strange without their valleys.—I’m learning to
read the charts.—Japheth complains that the triceratops prorus, the
iguanodon bernissartensis, and the dinosaurs are not eating. We’re
always having trouble with those what-you-may-call-its.—Mrs. Noah says
the Ark is beginning to smell like a barn. I can’t help that.—Took my
bath.

[Illustration: “_Can’t remember when it has rained so hard_”]

SUNDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—higher. SEA—higher. SHIP’S RUN—1.
WIRELESS REPORT—Ephesus C. Q. D.’d. So did Tyre.

REMARKS:

I never saw such a rain. It simply poured all day.—No ministers
aboard so I had to conduct the services in the saloon this morning.
Took as my text—Genesis 7:7. Mrs. Shem played the harpsichord. No
collection.—Sea just a little rougher this afternoon.—Have had a time
keeping Ham in the engine room. He’s lazy. He would rather fish than
work. Ham’s wife always sides with him. I’m afraid I’ll have trouble
with her.—Hope we don’t run into any of those waterspouts I’ve read
about.—Cargo still quiet. Hope none of those submarines attack us.

MONDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—N. E. SEA—a bit choppy. SHIP’S
RUN—½. WIRELESS REPORT—S. O. S. Chaldea.

REMARKS:

Women folks kicked to beat the band. It was too wet to hang out the
wash. I told them to bring enough lingerie to last forty days. I
always thought women’s clothes were too complicated anyway.—Made an
inspection of the staterooms. Everything O. K. and sanitary. Some of
the animals are a little crowded, but I can’t help that when each
mammoth takes two staterooms.—The Shetland ponies need exercise, but
it keeps on raining.—Mrs. Noah is still complaining. She can’t stand
the motion of the ship, and now she says the thought of the French
poodles being bunked with the rhino is horrible.—Real estate getting
scarce.—Had the auto tires thrown overboard. I couldn’t see any use
for them.

TUESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—same. SEA—choppier. SHIP’S RUN—same.
WIRELESS REPORT—Record high water in Babylon. Stores flooded.
Boats in streets.

REMARKS:

That bunk of mine is made of concrete.—I’m a little shaky today.
Appetite all gone. Meals don’t taste good. Felt better on deck. I’ve
never been seasick in my life. I wonder if this is it?—I’ll be all
right tomorrow.

[Illustration]

WEDNESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—stronger. SEA—pretty rough. SHIP’S
RUN—¼. WIRELESS REPORT—C. Q. D. Bagdad.

REMARKS:

Rain and a little rougher. Never had such strange sensations. I excused
myself from the dinner table. I don’t think it’s the motion of the
boat, but the smell of the cooking and the vibration. I like to keep
perfectly quiet in my steamer chair and have plenty of air.—Mrs.
Japheth brought me a sardine sandwich this afternoon. That was
sinful.—Only stuck my head in the dining-room door at supper time. I’d
like to be on dry land just now. Mrs. Noah is a nuisance. She wants to
know what she can do for me. Why can’t people let me alone in these
critical times? Wonder if I am seasick?—I’ll be all right tomorrow.

THURSDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—stronger. SEA—nauseating. SHIP’S
RUN—¼. WIRELESS REPORT—Work stopped on tower of Babel.

REMARKS:

Rougher and more rain.—Tried to get up this morning but gave it up.
Every time the Ark pitches I feel so uncomfortable. Nothing I eat stays
et. Mrs. Noah and the girls brought hot lemonade and gruel into my
cabin. It only takes the thought of such things to make my sensations
worse. I don’t see why they had to fry onions today.—The second
officer came in tonight and said it was my watch. I told him the Ark
could get along without my watch. He said we might founder if the
bridge was empty. I told him I didn’t care if we did.—Mrs. Ham says
there is no such a thing as seasickness. She claims it’s a state of
mind. Why can’t people let me alone?—I’ll be all right tomorrow.

FRIDAY. COURSE— WEATHER— WIND—
SEA— SHIP’S RUN— WIRELESS REPORT—

REMARKS:

————!

[Illustration]

SATURDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—abating. SEA—steadier. SHIP’S RUN—I
forgot to look. WIRELESS REPORT—S. O. S. Troy.

REMARKS:

Am writing this in bed. Guess it rained yesterday. Oh! it was awful! I
must have been seasick. How I wanted the old ship to sink! My system
never went back on me like that—Oh! it was frightful—horrible! I felt
as though I were going down in one of those new-fangled elevators. And
then, these people kept bothering me. I wanted to die alone. I told
the family where they could find the will.—Japheth said I should eat
some finnan haddy. That was a deliberate attempt on my life. Mrs. Shem
made me suck a lemon, and take a bottle of sure-cure seasick medicine.
I nearly died after that. Mrs. Noah kept stroking my head, and asking
what I wanted to eat. Ham brought me a bottle of cod liver oil. I
wanted to smite him, but I had not the strength. The only comfort I
had was Shem. I heard him say, “Why don’t you people get out, and
let the old man alone?” That was so kind.—I hope I’ll be all right
tomorrow.—Postponed my bath.

SUNDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—same. SEA—calmer. SHIP’S RUN—same as
yesterday. WIRELESS REPORT—C. Q. D. Phœnicia.

REMARKS:

Still raining. Postponed church until next Sunday.—I went up on deck
for awhile. Still feel a little wabbly. The officers accused me of
being seasick. I was not. Something I ate didn’t agree with me.—I miss
the Sunday newspapers.—The male elephant was down with a bad tuskache
this afternoon. Tried to pull it but I was too weak.

[Illustration]

MONDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—no wind. SEA—all right again. SHIP’S
RUN—3. WIRELESS REPORT—Peach and potato crops ruined.

REMARKS:

Rained harder than usual.—The elephant’s tusk was much better this
morning.—There’s a funny piece of mechanism on the bridge. It has
N. S. E. W. printed on it. Shem and Ham say it’s a game. They spin a
needle and guess where it will stop. Shem always puts his money on the
letter N and wins. They wouldn’t let me play the N. I believe Shem is a
capper.—This weather looks like a real flood.—I feel a little better
today.

TUESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—none. SEA—none. SHIP’S RUN—3.
WIRELESS REPORT—C. Q. D. Mesopotamia.

REMARKS:

Mrs. Noah is again complaining. She says the weather takes the waves
out of her marcels. I suppose on the forty-first day she will find
fault with the sunshine.—The camels took a drink four days ago, and
haven’t touched a drop since.—Shem and Ham let me play the N today. I
lost two more shekels. I think that machine is possessed.—According to
the almanac we should be having fine weather.

[Illustration]

WEDNESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—moderate. SEA—reposed. SHIP’S
RUN—4¼. WIRELESS REPORT—none today.

REMARKS:

Mrs. Noah is becoming attached to the diplodocus carnegiei. The two
are together a great deal.—I played that machine again today. Lost!
Just before I quit, I saw Shem hold a horseshoe where he wanted the
needle to stop. When I caught him, he said it was only for good luck.
I see through that game now. I’ll catch them tomorrow.—I’m all the
time forgetting on which side of the ship the red lights belong. I
can’t see the use of making my Ark look like a drug store.—WEATHER
FORECAST—continued rain.

THURSDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—south. SEA—same as usual.
RAINFALL—six inches. SHIP’S RUN—2.

REMARKS:

This morning I took a shoe off the mare. Put ten shekels on the
letter W. Held my good-luck shoe at the letter. Shem held his at E.
Shem won. I’m not going to play that game any more.—Guess the camels
must be sick. They will not drink.—Don’t see land anywhere. The
thousand-leggers haven’t their sea legs as yet.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: “_I’m not going to play that game any more_”]

FRIDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—steady. SEA—same as yesterday. SHIP’S
RUN—1. WIRELESS REPORT—none.

REMARKS:

The weather still has it in for us.—I found Shem’s good-luck
horseshoe. It’s a magnet. The scoundrel!—Spent the morning reading up
on animals. Wish I knew as much about them as Mr. Æsop.—Japheth says
the peanut-eating varieties have consumed 477,392 nuts.—Nearly had a
sad disaster today.—One of the bullfrogs jumped overboard. We lowered
the lifeboat, and rescued him after a chase.—The water spaniels seem
to enjoy this weather.—The women folks have organized some kind of an
“anti” society.—The food on board is extraordinary. The salt air seems
to have benefited my appetite. Still, Mrs. Noah never could cook like
mother.

SATURDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—straight ahead. RAINFALL—5½ inches. SHIP’S
RUN—4. SEA—much deeper.

REMARKS:

Did not sleep well last night. The rain on the roof keeps me
awake.—Mrs. Noah went about the Ark pinning up “No smoking”
signs.—All at sea about our course. If the world is round we are all
right. If it’s flat we may topple off the edge. We ancients are greatly
handicapped. Wish Columbus had lived before my time. Japheth and I
spent the whole morning trying to figure where we are. His calculations
make us sailing south of the Dead Sea. Mine show we are over Sheba. I’m
right because I’m the captain.—The camels still won’t drink.—Had to
scold Ham for trying to steal the fish-worms. I’ll bet he wanted to go
fishing tomorrow.—Took my bath.

[Illustration: “_Spent the morning reading up on animals_”]

SUNDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—cool. SEA—same. SHIP’S RUN—2.

REMARKS:

No services. Shem ran into my cabin this morning. He was greatly
excited. He said the bothriospondylus madagascariensis, the
metriorhynchus superciliosus, and the long-horned brontotherium had
climbed out of their stalls, and were fighting with the macanchenia
patagonica and the testudo periniana. I went downstairs and found
that the bothriospondylus madagascariensis, the metriorhynchus
superciliosus, and the long-horned brontotherium were not fighting with
the macanchenia patagonica and the testudo periniana, but with the
sceliditherium leptocephalum and the pachydiscus peramphus. The noise
of the battle awoke the machairodus negæus, the horplophorus ornatus,
and the pareiasaurus serridens. They began to purr. It was a good thing
for me I was not stepped on while stopping the fight. Gol darn the
fellow who gave animals such names.

[Illustration: “_It’s a good thing for me I wasn’t stepped on while
stopping the fight_”]

MONDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—dry. SEA—smooth. SHIP’S RUN—2.

REMARKS:

Twenty days out. Rain half over.—Camels took a drink today. First time
since the tenth. I’d hate to be a camel.—I won the pool on the ship’s
run.—We have to watch the flies all the time to keep them away from
the fly-paper.—Shem complains that the lions eat too much meat. Meat
is expensive these days. I’m going to try feeding them hay.—Shot craps
awhile this afternoon with Japh.—We are using the sun-dials again.
During the night the ostrich broke into the chart room and swallowed my
Ingersoll chronometer.—It takes 24 life preservers to go around the
elephant.

[Illustration]

TUESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—up a bit. SEA—starting to blow. SHIP’S
RUN—½.

REMARKS:

I am sure this is a record rain. Read all the weather reports, but
can’t find any to beat it.—Wish I had spent more time in zoos when
I was ashore. There are some details about animals which I do not
know. Today I wanted to find out why the canaries always attack the
cuttlefish.—The girls spent the afternoon playing bridge. War in camp
now.—Mrs. Noah has named her diplodocus carnegiei “Yorick.” It makes
me laugh to see them promenading the deck together.—The mice broke out
today.

WEDNESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—worse. SEA—worse. SHIP’S RUN—¼.

REMARKS:

The typhoid fever germs are looking thin. I don’t know who to feed them
on. Sometimes I think it would be a good idea to throw them overboard,
but I’m too tender-hearted.—My raincoat leaks. Caught a bad cold. Mrs.
Noah made a mustard foot-bath for me tonight. Drank two goblets of
sassafras tea. Mrs. Ham tried to give me some patent medicine. No sir,
I’ll stick to the old-fashioned remedies every time. The Ark is a bad
place for a rheumatic.—Caught Ham making hieroglyphics of me today.

[Illustration: “_Never saw such rain_”]

THURSDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—terrible. SEA—wild. SHIP’S RUN—minus
19.

REMARKS:

I stood on the bridge eighteen hours during a storm. Never saw such
waves. Some were as high as the Tower of Babel is going to be. A few
broke into the funnels. Ham was flooded out of the engine room. We
used racks on the table, and had trouble with the soup. The hippo
rolled over one of the mice and nearly squashed it. The animals got all
mixed up. The lightning turned the condensed milk sour. Mrs. Shem says
she will be able to make cheese out of it. Had to throw the library
overboard to save the ship. I saved the almanac, Æsop’s animal book,
the dictionary, and the Everyman’s Encyclopedia. The sea is quieting
now. I’m dead tired. Now to bed.—I wonder where mother-in-law is
tonight?

[Illustration: “_Had to throw the library overboard to save the ship_”]

FRIDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—less. SEA—less. SHIP’S RUN—1.

REMARKS:

While making an inspection of the fowls of the air, I heard someone
talking. Thought it was a stowaway until I found two Irish-green birds
with Hebraic beaks and the voice of a man. They are the most wonderful
birds I ever saw. One of them hollered “hello,” and the other says
something about a cracker. I’m going to make friends with them. Took
them to my stateroom. They eat sunflower seed and climb with their
faces.

SATURDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—from astern. SEA—quiet. SHIP’S
RUN—resumed normal speed.

REMARKS:

I must be careful what I say before those green birds. While hunting
for a collar-button I bumped my head. When Mrs. Noah came into the room
they repeated what I said.—I wish it would stop raining so I could
paint the ship.—Yorick keeps pawing at the stateroom door during the
night. He is worse than a wolf. I don’t dare say anything.—Bath.

SUNDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—shifty. SEA—same. SHIP’S RUN—3.

REMARKS:

Not a sign of a let-up in the rain.—Services this A.M.—One
of those impudent birds called me “whiskers” today. I hung them down
in the engine room for punishment. Mrs. Noah said it was cruel to
leave them in that smoky place. Tonight she brought them back to the
stateroom. Their language was shocking. They had learned a lot of
new words.—I like Sundays. We always have ice-cream for dinner.—I
caught Ham fishing today. Put the fish-worms in the safe. I don’t trust
him.—Shem says the lookout barrel is too tight for him.

[Illustration]

MONDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—moist. SEA—cheerless. SHIP’S RUN—2.

REMARKS:

Another wash-day ruined.—We can’t stand those birds any more. I think
Ham must have taught them that strange language. I locked them up in
the booby hatch so they won’t contaminate the other birds.—Came into
the cabin with muddy feet today. Mrs. Noah gave it to me. I don’t see
why I can’t do as I please on my own Ark.—Had my hair cut. These ship
barbers are miserable and their prices are exorbitant.—Won pool on
ship’s run. The women keep asking me when the rain will stop. They want
to use their kodaks.

TUESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—abating. SEA—squally. SHIP’S RUN—1.

REMARKS:

I am awakened every morning by the crew scrubbing. It sounds as though
they bring the trunks out of the hold and shuffle them around the
decks.—We had quite a hunt this afternoon. Some of the ant-eaters’
food escaped. Mrs. Japheth finally found them in the preserves.—The
rhino had a bad accident last night. He tripped while walking
downstairs. Several square feet of hide was torn off. We riveted on a
piece of boiler plate.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

WEDNESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—high. SEA—disturbed. SHIP’S RUN—½.

REMARKS:

Greatly disappointed at breakfast. My day for the egg, but the hen
didn’t lay one.—The male whale has a bad attack of eczema. I must be
careful of that fish. I have to save him for Jonah.—My steamer rug is
almost worn out.—Ouch! I just killed a mosquito. I don’t mind their
singing, but I can’t get used to their bites.—One of my back teeth
began to ache.

THURSDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—same. SEA—same. SHIP’S RUN—same.

REMARKS:

An all-day rain.—I can’t get along with Mrs. Ham. About all she can
do is sit around and try to look pretty. She can’t even do that very
well. Her family thought Ham married her for her money. Some women
are so useless. Mrs. Shem and Mrs. Japheth are so different. They are
sympathetic and love the cargo. They seem to realize I have done quite
a favour in bringing them along. It does my heart good to see Mrs. Shem
pet those pigs. She would make a dandy snake-charmer. That Ham woman
only plays with the French poodle and the pomeranian. Today she refused
to feed the mosquitoes. She said they make lumps on her arms.

FRIDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—hot. SEA—peaceful. SHIP’S RUN—3.

REMARKS:

Set the sun-dial ahead half an hour. Have to do that every day to keep
up with the run of the ship.—The giraffe has a cold in his throat.
Mrs. Noah took all my red flannels and forty pounds of bacon to make
a bandage.—I get all muddled up when I try to figure where we are.
The first officer thinks we are off the coast of Egypt. That’s where
they are going to build the pyramids. I guess we are sailing along the
African coast. Keeping a sharp lookout for pirates.—The women folks
are always asking me when it will stop raining. They say nobody will
believe they have been away unless they are sunburned.

[Illustration]

SATURDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—tempered. SEA—none. SHIP’S RUN—none.
Stopped for repairs.

REMARKS:

Rained pitchforks all day.—Put an extra officer on deck to watch for
pirates. The high seas are dangerous in these prehistoric days.—Ham
won’t let his wife tend the whales. He says her clothes smell fishy.
I’ll never go through another flood so short-handed.—Shem tells me I
ought to put the latitude and longitude in the log. I didn’t like to
show my ignorance so I said I would, but I won’t.—This damp weather
has a depressing effect on the officers and the family. It also is
making the canary seed sprout, and putting mould on the hay.—Guess all
the mines are flooded by this time. I had stock in several—guaranteed
to pay 200 per cent. Hope they are waterproof. Wish it were the
fortieth.—Bath.

SUNDAY.

REMARKS:

Services this A.M. We are saving the collection until we get
ashore.—I’m 600 years old today. I’ll be grey soon. The family got
tired pounding me. Tonight the officers and their wives gave me a
surprise party. Mrs. Shem baked a cake, but you couldn’t see it for
candles. Mrs. Japheth gave me some records for the talking machine.
Shem gave me a red tie. Ham gave me—no, he didn’t give me anything. He
wished me many happy returns of the day. His wife presented me with a
pair of dancing sandals. Japheth donated a bottle of hair tonic. Mrs.
Noah knitted me some socks and a nightcap.

I’m getting along in years, but, still, grandpa was something like 1000
before they made a mummy out of him. I want to get away with this trip.
It will be a good thing for my reputation. Perhaps it will make me
famous. I want my posterity to have a fine opinion of me. It’s a good
thing for them I was born. I’d like to live a few hundred years more to
see some of my descendants, but it isn’t a good thing to have too much
to do with one’s relations. I wonder where I’ll be when I am 700? Mrs.
Noah did not abuse me once today.—No pirates yet.

[Illustration]

MONDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—variable. SEA—full of seaweed. SHIP’S
RUN—2.

REMARKS:

The welsh rarebit we had at my party last night kept me awake.—I
wonder what that latitude and longitude is? I ought to have taken
a course in navigation before I undertook this trip.—We are using
the flint and steel again. The matches are too damp.—Mrs. Ham
complains about the butter. She says it is rancid. She can’t expect a
Ritz-Carlton aboard. It was guaranteed for a year. If I ever find the
manufacturer I’ll make him live up to his agreement.—My umbrella needs
re-covering. This weather is certainly monotonous.—No pirates yet.

TUESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—invariable. SEA—middling. SHIP’S
RUN—2.

REMARKS:

I was nearly scared to death last night. The dogs awakened me. The
Irish setters barked with a pronounced brogue. At first I thought
someone was breaking into the chicken coop—then I thought of the
pirates! Put on my nightcap, took a candle, and went below. Someone
hollered, “Who?” I said, “I’m Noah, and who are you or I’ll fire?” I
was scared stiff. No answer. I couldn’t find anybody except the two
birds that sleep all day. They kept winking and blinking at me. Didn’t
find any pirates, but I went back to bed and dreamed about them. Ham
says that’s what I get for reading ten shekel novels.

[Illustration: “_I went back to bed and dreamed about pirates_”]

WEDNESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—puffy. SEA—dismal. SHIP’S RUN—3.

REMARKS:

Seven kittens came aboard during the night. I don’t know what on
earth to do with them. Ham wants to feed them to the iguanodon
bernissartensis. I think they ought to go into the rainwater barrel.
Mrs. Noah and the girls say they will never speak to me if I drown
them.—I’m resting easier. We’re out of the pirate belt.—Our charts
are worthless now. The water is too deep for them.—Threw a keg of
butter overboard this afternoon.

[Illustration]

THURSDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—blowy. SEA—swelly. SHIP’S RUN—¾.

REMARKS:

Ha! ha! Ham sat on the porcupine.—Poor Shem was stung while feeding
the bees. They ought to be muzzled.—Have decided to let those kittens
live. I detest a family quarrel.—We moved the pigs’ sty to the extreme
stern.—Passed over Damascus at 4.32. Mrs. Ham told us all about her
visits to the place with her parents.—It was a fine old town. That
reminds me—a fellow there owed me seven and a half camels.

FRIDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—foggy.
SEA—foggy. SHIP’S RUN—foggy.

REMARKS:

Rain and fog. There ought to be a law compelling shipowners to muffle
their fog-horns. Mine kept me awake all last night.—The dinosaur eats
a ton of hay at a meal. If that keeps up we’ll have to put into some
port for more provisions.—Mrs. Noah visited the bowels of the ship
today. She came up crying. She said the hyenas laughed at her. They
are braver than Mr. Noah.—Mrs. Shem is teaching the goats to eat the
soup tins. That will save a little hay. Ah! that woman is fine and
economical.

[Illustration]

SATURDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—less. SEA—less. SHIP’S RUN—1.

REMARKS:

Barometer going up. My rheumatism is much better. The clouds seem
to be breaking. I believe it will clear. I’m so used to this rain I
almost hate to see it stop.—One night more and we’ll be able to sit on
deck.—I had everybody guessing at the supper table. I asked them where
Moses is going to be when the light goes out. The officers and their
wives are trying to guess.—I made a muffler for the fog-horn today.
Now, let it fog.—Took my bath.

SUNDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—rain.
WIND—dying. SEA—calm. SHIP’S RUN—3.

REMARKS:

Fortieth day out. Rain almost over.—Services this A.M. Ham
went to sleep during the sermon.—This afternoon I sat around talking
to the girls. They love to hear me tell how I captured the animals.
Today I told them about lassoing the Wild West buffaloes.—Had to get
the trunks out of the hold. Mrs. Noah wanted her parasol.—Everybody
more cheerful.—Had the harpactocaicinus punctulatus out for an airing.
Something must be wrong with them. They only walked sideways. Looked
them up in the encyclopedia and found they were nothing but common
crabs.—Nobody has guessed my riddle.—Mrs. Noah quit kicking about her
corns. Now, I know it will stop raining.—Well, the old Dreadnought
weathered the rain all right.

MONDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—fine.
WIND—stopped. SEA—blue. SHIP’S RUN—5.

REMARKS:

Punctually at one second after eight bells—midnight—the rain
ceased.—The day dawned bright and clear.—Deck was covered with wash
all morning. My, but the sun felt good!—Curried the rust off the two
donkey engines.—The ladies began using their kodaks this afternoon.
I had to pose for my picture.—After supper we all promenaded the
promenade deck. It was clear tonight so we used the searchlight. Much
interesting débris about. It is dangerous to navigation.—Everything
smells so nice after the shower.—Shem says he can’t quite tell where
we are by the stars, but he thinks we are south of the dipper.—Started
painting the ship.—Nobody has guessed my riddle.

[Illustration]

TUESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—clear.
WIND—balmy. SEA—fine. SHIP’S RUN—5.

REMARKS:

The ladies spent the morning ironing.—I rigged up the deck
shuffleboard and practised. The list of the ship makes the game
interesting.—I find my umbrella comes in handy to keep off the
sun.—The girls are now afraid they will be tanned.—Sat in steamer
chair most of the afternoon. Tonight, Shem, Ham, Japheth, and their
wives are sitting on deck and singing old songs. I won’t be able to
get asleep. I wonder if they think this is a Cook’s tour?—Had to tell
the answer to my joke. I thought Shem would die laughing. The dear boy
does enjoy humour.—We are trying to see who can walk around the deck
the greatest number of times.—My nose is beginning to peel.—My, this
weather is glorious!

WEDNESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—clear.
WIND—same. SEA—delightful. SHIP’S RUN—5.

REMARKS:

Still painting ship. Mrs. Ham caught her dress in it. Poor Ham got
an awful lecture. She complained to the captain, but I beat it to
the bridge. Some women are so funny.—The moon came up tonight. All
the young married people are out on deck spooning. It’s a peculiar
thing how the moon and steamers affect some people. I can hear
Mrs. Noah snoring now. A few hundred years ago we also used to be
sentimental.—Put up the awnings today.—Walked around the deck 24
times after supper.—Wish there were some nice old school teachers
aboard.

[Illustration]

THURSDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—clear.
WIND—same. SEA—same. SHIP’S RUN—same.

REMARKS:

The crew continue scrubbing the decks. They did it in the rainy
weather, and now it’s just the same. This ship etiquette is a
nuisance.—I’m up in the air about my two tadpoles. I don’t know
what has become of them. Found two frogs in their cage. I don’t know
where they came from either. Perhaps they ate my two pollywogs. Now I
have four frogs and no tadpoles.—We have thrown overboard 1,119,111
microbes to date. I only need two of each kind.—I’m getting prouder of
my animals every day. I have the finest collection in captivity.—The
back of my neck is blistered.—Had a bad scare today. Saw what we
thought was a periscope but found it was only one of Mrs. Noah’s ear
trumpets which had fallen overboard.

FRIDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—clear.
WIND—same. SEA—same. SHIP’S RUN—same.

REMARKS:

We tried to give the ichthyosaurus quadriscessus an airing. She made
the ship list so badly we had to drive her back to the steerage.—Guess
the second officer fell asleep on the bridge. He did not call me for
my watch.—The ladies always want to come up on the bridge when I
am there. I had to take them through the Ark today. Mrs. Ham made
some sarcastic remarks. She said she had frequently crossed on
more luxurious vessels. That may be, but she never had a trip like
this. These women are a perfect nuisance, but a captain has to be
polite.—Walked around deck 16 times.

[Illustration]

SATURDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—same.
WIND—same. SEA—same. SHIP’S RUN—same.

REMARKS:

Today we sprinkled a barrel of eau de cologne in the steerage and
second cabin.—Posed again for my picture. Mrs. Shem promises to send
me one if it is good.—Had the ladies in my cabin for tea. They asked
many questions about my experiences at sea. I told them a few old
yarns. Gave them all my autograph.—If those potato-bugs don’t soon
lose their appetites we will run out of spuds.—Walked around deck 10
times.—Bath.

[Illustration]

SUNDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—same.
WIND—same. SEA—same. SHIP’S RUN—same.

REMARKS:

Services. I have a hard time getting the men to church this clear
weather.—Put on my Sunday clothes today. It’s a nuisance to dress
in these little staterooms. Every time I change my robes I have to
pull the trunk from under the bunk, and then the things I want are
usually in the trunks in the hold.—These women ask me so many foolish
questions. I have to explain the machinery, the charts, and tell
them how I run the Ark. They pester the life out of me with “What is
this?” and “What is that for?” If they bother me tomorrow I’m going to
hide.—Walked around the deck eight times.—We have prunes every Sunday
night for supper.

WASHDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—same.
WIND—same. SEA—same. SHIP’S RUN—same.

REMARKS:

Women folks down below washing. I was awfully lonely all day.—Now that
the wireless is out of commission the ladies are using the wires for a
clothes line.—Ham says the moles are burrowing in the coal.—The goats
nearly ate the fish-worms’ pan.—The two mules with the tiger’s skin
are overeating.—Still painting the Ark.—The laundry on this ship is
miserable. My collars are like saws.—I’m getting corns on my hands
from steering.—Walked around deck five times.

[Illustration]

TUESDAY. COURSE—straight ahead. WEATHER—same.
WIND—same. SEA—same. SHIP’S RUN—same.

REMARKS:

One of the bulldogs buried his bone in the coal. He wouldn’t let Ham go
near the bunkers. If I hadn’t gone down cellar and chased him back to
his kennel the Ark would have stopped. Ham is a big coward to be afraid
of a little bulldog.—Was shocked this afternoon. Found the women folks
in the smoke room holding a suffrage powwow. These women will want to
run everything some day. I can remember the time when they knew where
they belonged. I haven’t any use for these modern notions.

I’m tired writing all this dope about the course, weather, etc. I’m
going to quit it even if I lose my job. Besides, I’m running out of
stone and my chisels are getting dull.

WEDNESDAY. COURSE—I forgot, I’m not going to write that any
more.

REMARKS:

Spent the morning writing letters.—Shem called my attention to the
fact that I call the right hand side of the Ark the right side, and the
left hand side the left side. He says I should say “port” for the port
side, and “starboard” for the starboard side—or something like that.
He seems to forget this is my first flood and I’m liable to make a few
mistakes.—Ham dressed up the girl monkey, and took out the hand-organ.
He thought I would give him some shekels, but he was mistaken.

[Illustration]

THURSDAY.

REMARKS:

Wish the hen would lay more than one egg a day. We take turns eating it
for breakfast. Eight days is a long time to wait. I’m going to suggest
omelets.—Shem propounded a good one tonight. He asked why a hen
crosses the boulevard. I laughed so hard it hurt.—Mrs. Shem took my
picture again today.—Four of the seven kittens each found seven more
kittens.—Moved the bookworms from the hold to Mrs. Noah’s cook book.
They ought to find something they like in it.—The ravens make a lot of
noise at night. I would choke them, only I need one later.—Mrs. Noah
brings Yorick into the dining-room at meal time. I never did like to
see people feed pets at the table.—One of the fleas is lost.

[Illustration]

FRIDAY.

REMARKS:

We had our dance tonight. It was a glorious success. I’m all out of
breath, and dead tired now. I danced through my birthday dancing
sandals. We decorated the deck with flags and Japanese lanterns, and
sprinkled candle grease on the dance floor to make it glide. Shem and
Mrs. Japheth were the orchestra. I had eleven dances with Mrs. Shem,
and only stepped on her feet twice and her dress once. Ham is a rough
dancer. He bumped my partner.—Mrs. Noah wore a new gown. I did not
think it was becoming because it was cut too _décolleté_. I don’t see
why these old women like to look so young.

Mr. and Mrs. Japheth did one of those new dances. I forget what they
call it—something about a turkey. Rather unedifying I thought. If
there had been any ministers around, I bet they would have passed
resolutions.—We danced the minuet seventy times, and the Sir Roger de
Coverley twenty. I was mixed up once in awhile because I hadn’t danced
some of those dances for over 300 years.—We didn’t have any Egyptian
dances.

[Illustration: “_We had our dance tonight_”]

SATURDAY.

REMARKS:

Had our only real catastrophe today. I’m broken hearted. I’m weeping
now. I took the two unicorns out on deck for exercise. They insisted
on climbing along the gunwale. They liked nothing better. I was afraid
they would fall overboard. They did. It took Ham a long time to stop
the Ark. He forgot which levers to pull. When we got back to the place
where the unicorns fell overboard there was nothing to be seen but
bubbles. The poor dears couldn’t swim. It was the saddest moment in my
life. Shem says it may all be for the best because they were only good
for designs on escutcheons and coats of arms. I take great comfort in
his words, but I am afraid people will always say that unicorns were a
myth. All the flags are at half-mast.—Something is making me scratch.
I notice some red spots on my person.—Took my bath.

SUNDAY. WIRELESS REPORT—Shem says there’s no fun using the
wireless unless you can talk to somebody.

REMARKS:

Services this morning. I am tired of preaching. Wish there had been
some good ministers.—The candles are giving out. Was struck with a
bright idea. Took the two lightning bugs and put them in a wine bottle.
Hung it from the chandelier. Great success.—House-cleaned the aquarium
this afternoon. I can’t see why the white fish don’t get along with the
smoked herring.—Mrs. Noah located that flea.

[Illustration]

MONDAY.

REMARKS:

We played charades tonight. Ham and his wife came as Adam and Eve. We
guessed them in a minute. Japheth put on a suit of my robes, and came
as me. I guessed him by the beard. Mrs. Noah was an Egyptian princess,
who fell in love with some foreigners. I forget her name. Mrs. Japheth
appeared as a Chaldean suffragette. We gave her up until she smashed a
few portholes.

I came disguised with a lantern. Walked around the deck looking for
someone. They couldn’t guess me. Then I went up to a looking-glass
and shook hands with myself. They couldn’t even guess me after that.
Afterwards, Ham said he thought I was Diogenes but I threw him off the
scent when I shook hands with myself.

TUESDAY.

REMARKS:

Mrs. Ham wants me to give her the feathers of the birds of paradise
if they die.—Ham played a mean trick on me today. While I was on
the bridge he ran up and said somebody wanted me on the telephone. I
was half-way down the ladder before I tumbled.—Mrs. Shem made candy
this afternoon. She gave me a whole pan to myself. I do like that
woman.—Mrs. Noah wishes there were some other women on the Ark to talk
about.—Gave the apple worms a fresh apple.—Caught Ham fishing in the
gold-fish bowl.

[Illustration]

WEDNESDAY.

REMARKS:

Spent the morning tacking a screen around the two spider-webs to keep
the flies from bothering the poor bugs.—Fed the moths the last piece
of brussels carpet today.—Those two sphinxes haven’t eaten a single
thing on the voyage. I’ve read somewhere they only eat mummies.

[Illustration]

THURSDAY.

REMARKS:

Nothing happened today.

[Illustration]

FRIDAY.

REMARKS:

We’re almost over the equator. Quite warm. Wish we had brought some
electric fans.—That moose of mine has a dandy pair of antlers. I’d
like to have them for a hat-rack.—Yorick scratched up the flower
box. Mrs. Noah never said a word. If one of my animals had done that,
I never would have heard the end of it.—It beats me where all these
kittens are coming from. Put the canaries in the safe.

[Illustration]

SATURDAY.

REMARKS:

Made inventory of cargo. All present. It’s a grand sight to see them
all lined up. It’s a wonder I can remember all their names. I do
get mixed on the Latin pronunciation occasionally, but the family
never notice it. Anyway, I can’t see the use of giving a fly such a
high-faluting name as “musca domestica.”—The women folks make a lot
of fuss over the peacocks. They’re too fancy for me. I like something
plain like a hippopotamus.—It might be a good plan to catalogue these
animals while I have them all together. But I’m not a zoölogist. I’m a
shipbuilder and navigator.—My day to eat the egg.—Slipped Mrs. Noah’s
muff into the moths’ den. It ought to make good pasture for them.—Took
my bath.

SUNDAY. WIRELESS REPORT—Do your Christmas shopping early.

REMARKS:

Services.—We’re over India. It’s a shame we are so close to these
interesting places and can’t see them.—Shem says we are nearer the
horizon today than any time on the cruise.—Ham can’t see any use in
hanging up the red and green lights at night. As long as I’m captain
I’m going to run the Ark according to the rules. Who ever heard of an
Ark at sea without lights?—No ice-cream for dinner today. The freezer
is broken.—Mrs. Noah found her muff. She was furious.

MONDAY.

REMARKS:

Can’t understand two little birds among my specimens. They roost in
the top of the clock. Every once in awhile they come out and holler
“coo-coo.” I have tried everything to make them eat. They don’t like
bird-seed. Now, I’m tempting them with worms.—Took Mrs. Noah’s boa to
the moths’ den. I was caught. She won’t talk to me now. That woman is
heartless. She wouldn’t care if the dear animals starved to death. I’ll
have to feed them blotting paper.—Repaired the freezer.

[Illustration]

TUESDAY.

REMARKS:

We can’t keep the fox terrier away from talking machine.

[Illustration]

WEDNESDAY.

REMARKS:

Had all the creeping things out for exercise. The deck was quite
alive. I have made pets of all the animals on the Ark with the
exception of some of these. Take the St. Vitus dance microbes for
instance—they are entirely too unsympathetic for me. I don’t
care much for the snakes either. They are the things that got
my great-great-great-great-grandmother into trouble. One of the
grasshoppers tried to jump overboard.—Japh, Ham and their wives
sit too late in the smoke room. Those children ought to go to bed
early.—Mrs. Shem says the Noah family eats so much the pigs are
getting thin.—Seven more kittens today.

[Illustration]

THURSDAY.

REMARKS:

One of the megatheriums presented her husband with a little,
seventy-five foot daughter. We’re too crowded as it is. Shem and I fed
her a couple of barrels of chloroform, and then threw it overboard. It
will make a fine fossil for some museum.—Mrs. Noah gave a progressive
bridge tonight. I had to go. I don’t see why one can’t sit at the same
table all evening. Still, the moving keeps me awake. Mrs. Shem won a
stamp album, and Ham got a chafing-dish.

[Illustration]

FRIDAY.

REMARKS:

Posed again for my picture.—Yorick has eaten all the Spratt’s
biscuits.—Dropped one of the clay pigeons, but did not break
him.—Spent morning whitewashing the chicken coop.—Fourteen more
kittens today.—Passed several floating _Verboten_ signs. We must be
over Germany. Mrs. Ham had to tell us all about her travels in that
country.—There’s a little hundred-footer in the thousand-legger bunk.

[Illustration]

SATURDAY.

REMARKS:

Mrs. Japheth made a _faux pas_ this morning. She shouted, “Ship
ahoy.” We all ran to the railing and looked. She insisted she saw
smoke beyond the horizon. If there’s anything to be seen the man on
the lookout ought to see it first.—I spend a good deal of time on the
bridge these days. We are in the path of the liners and I don’t want a
collision. But I guess we won’t sink. We have twelve rats aboard.—Bath.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: “_Feeding time in the steerage_”]

SUNDAY.

REMARKS:

One of the bats broke up church. The women crawled under the pews when
we began the chase. Ham smashed a mirror. He’ll have seven years’ bad
luck. I finally hit the bird with a tennis racket, and chased him back
to his cage. I don’t know, but I believe Ham let him out. I had a good
sermon for today, too. I was going to tell the congregation about the
sins of the world. They’ll get that sermon yet.—The cook says we are
running out of provisions. Our water supply is still good.—My day for
the egg.—We’re crossing the Ægean Sea. Mrs. Ham had to tell us about
her last voyage.—Going to have a mock trial tomorrow.

MONDAY.

REMARKS:

Had the mock trial tonight. I was arrested on the charge of cruelty
to animals. Mrs. Noah swore out the warrant. Japheth was the cop, and
Ham the prosecuting attorney. Mrs. Noah was the first witness. She
told the court I made the bats sleep upside down, that I wouldn’t
let the mock turtles mock, and that I put sawdust in the bran I fed
the megatherium cubieri. Mrs. Ham then took the stand and declared I
never opened the sardine cans before I fed them to the whales, that
I threw my sandle-jack at the cats, and knocked the stuffin’ out of
the teddybears. Mrs. Japheth testified I put the chameleon on the
crazy-quilt, and that I never cleaned the leopards. Of course, I didn’t
do any of these things, but I do wish I had taken a punch at Yorick.

Mrs. Shem was my witness. She said I had been a member of the S. P. C.
A. from infancy, that I was a couple of pillars of the temple, that I
had done my best to make the bats roost like a regular chicken, and
that she had frequently seen me trying to clean the spots off the
leopards with benzine. Shem was my lawyer. He declared the accusations
were pure blackmail, and that I was too young to be so cruel. The first
witness, he said, showed her incompetence by pronouncing “megatherium
cubieri,” “megatherium cubieri” and not “megatherium cubieri.” The
other witnesses were all in the pay of the animal trust, according
to my attorney, and as far as the chameleon charge was concerned
he produced evidence to show the bugs like nothing better than a
crazy-quilt to display their talents. In ending his speech, Shem said
I was the greatest animal keeper who ever lived, and that it would be
a blot on ancient history should I be convicted. I was unanimously
acquitted by the jury.

[Illustration]

TUESDAY.

REMARKS:

Spent morning in the monkey fo’csle. I’d hate to think I was a
descendant of theirs. I once asked grandpa about that story. He said
he had talked it over with his grandmother. She told him grandpa Adam
often declared the fabrication to be a deliberate lie.—I don’t know
what to do with the Ark after we land. Perhaps I can sell it to some
curiosity or second-hand dealer.—The crane stood on his other leg
today.—I felt sorry for the bugs in the hold, so I put an ark light
down there.

[Illustration]

WEDNESDAY.

REMARKS:

Christmas must be coming. Mrs. Noah has stopped complaining. She says
I am looking so young. Mrs. Ham warmed my slippers tonight. Ham is
really working.—A litter of pigs came aboard. Pigs is pigs. Anyway,
they are more practical than kittens. It’s against my principles to eat
pork, so we are going to make them into sausage.—Ham hopes the oysters
have little ones. He says he would enjoy a good oyster-stew.—Put on
my diver’s suit this afternoon, and went overboard to see if my two
barnacles were still on the keel. They were.

[Illustration: “_Went overboard to see if my two barnacles were still on
the keel_”]

THURSDAY.

REMARKS:

The night before Christmas. Everybody hung their stockings before the
fireplace. Ham wanted me to play Santa, and climb down the funnel. I
knew if I did he would pile on more coal. The family couldn’t do enough
for me tonight.—I finally decided to play Santa Claus. Dressed up like
a real toy-store Kriss Kringle. We had a jolly good time in the cabin.
Decorated the tree, and hung some mistletoe from the chandelier. I
caught Mrs. Shem several times. Mrs. Noah had to get jealous, and sat
under it.

I don’t think they would have known who I was if my beard had not
caught fire. Everybody lost their heads. The girls fainted. The boys
ran for the fire buckets. I finally got a fire-extinguisher going, but
the thing was so old-fashioned several inches of whiskers were burned
before I put out the flames.

[Illustration: “_Several inches of whiskers were burned_”]

FRIDAY.

REMARKS:

Christmas—peace on earth, good will to men. Up early to see what
was in my stocking. We had a family gathering in the saloon this
morning. Received the most original presents. Mrs. Ham gave me some
cigars (haven’t smoked any yet) and a pink lounging jacket. The family
gave me: handkerchiefs, a stick pin, Christmas cards, another red
tie, slippers, a knitted shirt, and a pair of skates. Ham gave me
subscriptions to several magazines. I gave Mrs. Noah a handsome pair
of anklets, and a cut-glass salad bowl. Gave Japheth his first razor.
He’s only 82 and hasn’t much of a beard. I gave the ladies the regular
Christmas presents.

When I was a child I enjoyed Christmas more than I do now. It’s too
expensive for a man with a family as large as mine. People do give such
inappropriate presents. I never looked well in a red necktie.—Had a
real plum-pudding for dinner, but I think the plums were prunes.—Oh!
yes, I did not get my egg today. They made eggnog out of it.—We opened
a barrel of candy.—I’m glad the day is over.

SATURDAY.

REMARKS:

Lit a Christmas cigar. I never heard one spatter as much when it hit
the water. The slippers pinch my feet.—Yorick walked in my way today.
I gave him a kick. Mrs. Noah saw me. She jawed me and said I had to
stop kicking her pet around.—Mrs. Ham complained to the captain that
Mrs. Shem and Mrs. Japheth keep taking her steamer chair. I told her
she would have to see the deck steward about it.—I wish Ham would work
more and draw less.—Took my bath.

SUNDAY.

REMARKS:

I would like to see a newspaper.—Those two Texas steers are mighty
interesting. Just to think what a big trust their descendants
will figure in.—The poor guineapigs caught their tails in the
machinery today. Now, they will have to go through the generations
tailless.—Tried to smoke another Christmas cigar while promenading
the deck with Mrs. Noah. How we men do suffer for our wives’ sake.
Accidentally dropped it overboard.—We’re sailing up the Jordan River.
Of course, Mrs. Ham told us all about her last trip. That woman has
travelled a bit, and continually says, “When I was here the last time,”
or “When I was here before.” It is vulgar to talk like that. These old
travellers are pests.—Hurrah! the prunes are all gone.

WASHDAY.

REMARKS:

Brought one of the Balaam trick donkeys on deck. Ham had a terrible
tumble. They wanted me to ride him, but I thought it would be
undignified.—Band concert tonight. I was the audience. The music
caused such a disturbance down in the hold that the band had to quit.
I never was so grateful to those animals before.—We’re going about ¼
of a knot an hour. I wonder if an ark ever will be built to go as fast
as one knot.—There’s another little rattle in the rattlers’ box.—Ham
took our pictures today.

[Illustration]

WEDNESDAY.

REMARKS:

Stopped all last night on account of a fog. I’m not taking any chances
with the Ark.—Gave the elephants an extra peanut today. Japheth raised
Cain with me. He’s a regular Scotchman.—This afternoon we took Jumbo
out, and gave the ladies a ride. It looked like a circus parade. Wish
I had a motion picture of it.—We also had the races on deck. The boys
ran a marathon. I lost interest—too long. Afterwards I won the potato
race.

[Illustration]

THURSDAY. December 31, B.C. 2349.

REMARKS:

It’s tomorrow now. We all sat around watching the old year out, and
the new year in. At eight bells—midnight—the Ark whistles began to
blow. The family jumped up on the tables, waved flags and blew horns.
Shem opened a bottle of wine.—This is pretty late for me to be up,
but I like a party once in awhile. I haven’t had one since the Ark was
christened.

FRIDAY. January 1, B.C. 2348.

REMARKS:

Wished everybody a happy yom kippur.—Am going to turn over some new
leaves today. Resolved to stop allowing Mrs. Noah to run the Ark,
to abandon wine, and swear off swearing. I am also going to keep a
diary.—We had some fine stewed rabbit for supper.—Received a few New
Year cards.—I am glad I have resolved to abstain from wine. In this
antiquity there is little comfort in becoming inebriated. And, then, I
don’t like that feeling I have in my head the morning after. It would
be a blessing to humanity if someone would invent a remedy for that
pain. I use a towel and ice water. Yes, I’m going to stop, and set a
good example to my offspring.

SATURDAY.

REMARKS:

The iguanodon bernissartensis laid an egg. We thought the Ark had run
aground when she cackled. The crew and I rolled it on the scales, but
it was too heavy to weigh. Ham wanted his mother to make an omelet. I
decided, however, to throw it overboard for fear the thing might hatch.
It made a fine big splash.—Passed a school of drowned fish.—Cut
myself this morning while shaving. I’m going to purchase a safety razor
as soon as I get into port.—Passed over Paris. Poor girls.

[Illustration]

MONDAY.

REMARKS:

Entertainment tonight. Pretty dull affair except for my number which
was the feature of the evening. Brought up one of the lions, and made
him go through all his stunts—jump through rings, growl at me, etc.
Then I had the seals. They are very slippery for trainers, but I made
them juggle a flaming torch and balance balls on their noses. Did a lot
of other circus tricks, too. Ended my performance with a grand display
of the elephant. Let him carry me about, walk over me, and stand on a
wash-tub and beg. I do love to crack that whip.—Mrs. Ham gave a lyre
solo. She struck several false notes.—Mrs. Japheth sang “Auld Lang
Syne.”—Ham did a hornpipe.—Shem recited a poem which he dedicated to
me. It was so full of sentiment I’m going to learn it by heart even if
I’m not much of a hand at poetry.—Mrs. Noah took up a collection for
the wives of the seamen.—I don’t like these ship entertainments. I’d
rather see a musical comedy with a good-looking choir any day.

[Illustration: “_My number was the feature of the evening_”]

WEDNESDAY.

REMARKS:

Today Mrs. Ham told us about a steamer where they had a daily
newspaper. I decided to publish one. Made Shem the editor-in-chief,
Japheth the printer, Mrs. Ham the society editor, and Ham the
cartoonist. First copy is to come from press tomorrow.—We have another
camel and a wee ichthyosaurus burgundii.—One of the crickets has a
sore chirp.

[Illustration]

THURSDAY.

REMARKS:

First edition of our paper came out today. We call it the _Diluvian
Times_. Price ½ shekel. Sold seven copies. Ham had a cartoon in it of
Shem. It was the funniest thing I ever saw.—Played solitaire tonight
to kill time.—The mock turtles have a baby mock turtle.—Am glad our
paper is such a success.

FRIDAY.

REMARKS:

The _Diluvian Times_ was again for sale at the news-stand. Ham’s
cartoon of Mrs. Noah made me roar. That boy certainly is clever with
his chisel. Mrs. Noah was greatly offended. I don’t see why.—Twins
arrived at the oyster headquarters.—Twelve more kittens today.—The
German eagle and the British lion are always growling at each
other.—Tonight I sat around reading the paper.

SATURDAY.

REMARKS:

Ham’s cartoon of Japheth was capital in today’s _Diluvian Times_. I
laugh every time I think of it.—The flies are becoming a nuisance.
They have occupied all the fly-paper. I love my two pet flies, but I
don’t like their descendants.—Another rhino today. I boxed up the
storks.

[Illustration]

MONDAY.

REMARKS:

There wasn’t a yesterday. We reached the spot in the ocean where we
captains have to forget a day. I don’t know where the 24 hours go. If I
were a younger man I would organize an expedition to come out here and
try to find them. Pushed all the sun-dials a whole day ahead.—There’s
a cartoon of me in today’s _Diluvian Times_. That impertinent Ham
did it. I didn’t see anything funny in it. Some people always spoil
everything.

TUESDAY.

REMARKS:

No _Diluvian Times_ today. I prohibited the publication.—Spent the
morning explaining the 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 bells to Mrs. Noah
and my daughters-in-law. They were very thick-headed.—Mrs. Noah broke
her curling iron today. I made her another out of a piece of pipe.—The
premium on my life insurance came due today. It was the first time in
479 years I’ve let it lapse.—We have a little Yorick. Mrs. Noah makes
a lot of fuss over the puppy.

[Illustration]

WEDNESDAY.

REMARKS:

Roof began to crack.—We let the microbes play in the smoke room
this morning. Had quite a time getting them back in their respective
cages.—That boy Shem is clever. He is a great comfort to me. He is
fond of astronomy. It may come in handy after the fortieth. He’s
fond of animals, too. He taught the rabbits to sit up on their hind
legs.—One of the lap dogs has the colic.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: _The Engine Room_]

THURSDAY.

REMARKS:

The elephant walked on my corn. By Jove, it did hurt. I wouldn’t have
minded it if he had stepped on my other foot, but—oh!—that corn.—The
alligators were homesick today. Ham painted some swamp scenery for
them. That is about the first useful thing he has done on the whole
trip.—My back tooth still hurts and we’re a long way from a good
dentist. Tried the hot-water bag, seven poultices, and Mrs. Ham’s faith
cure. Still it throbs.

FRIDAY.

REMARKS:

Made up my mind I would get rid of that tooth. Thought of a fine
home-made-dentist plan to pull it. Tied one end of a string to the
tooth and the other to the handle of my stateroom door. I wanted
somebody to open the door, and then the tooth would fly out. Sat there
all day, but no one came in. Tonight I opened the door and found some
practical joker had tacked up a “no admittance” sign. I’ll bet it was
Ham.

[Illustration]

SATURDAY.

REMARKS:

Pulled that tooth today sailor fashion. Tied the other end of the
string to the anchor, and hung on to the mast while Shem threw it
overboard. Thought it would pull the mast up by the roots. I don’t
care, I have fifteen teeth left, but it just dawned on me—I lost that
anchor.

[Illustration]

SUNDAY.

REMARKS:

100th day of voyage.—Services. I preached about the dangers young
people encounter in large cities. Hope the congregation remember my
warnings.—Tonight I overheard the officers talking. Ham said there was
not much fun working for the governor as I didn’t pay him anything.
He wanted to know how he could bring up a family on those wages. Shem
took my part and said I might leave him something in my will. Japheth
reminded Ham his expenses were next to nothing, and that he had plenty
to eat. He thought the Noah boys ought to make a fortune after we land
because labor will be so cheap.

Ham said he was going in for politics, and then he would be sure of
his fortune. Japheth said he would like to start a bank. Shem declared
he only would succeed as a professor in some college.—My, I wish one
of my sons would be a lawyer or a doctor. It gives distinction to the
family. I’m glad I haven’t any daughters. All a woman thinks about is
getting married, and I’d have a hard time finding good husbands for
them.

MONDAY.

REMARKS:

Mrs. Shem and I beat Japheth and Mrs. Japheth at deck shuffleboard.
Score 100 to 97. Mrs. Ham and Shem challenged us. I like to play that
game. It’s fun pushing those stone checkers along the deck.—The boa
constrictor peeled himself today.—Mrs. Ham wants the tiger skins to
make rugs. I told her she could have them if the animals died, but I’m
not going to let them die.—Engineer complains the crows are all the
time in the engine room. He’s afraid they will get mixed up in the
machinery. Hunted around the Ark and found some old clothes and ordered
him to make a scarecrow.

[Illustration]

TUESDAY.

REMARKS:

Ham is positively useless as an engineer. During the second watch I
saw a snag ahead. I signalled “stop” to the engineer. Ham came up from
the engine room and wanted to know why. We hit that snag. I’ll never
let him engineer me through another flood.—Exercised the lobsters.
Something must be wrong with their differential gears. They only walk
backwards.—Hoisted the sails to help the coal.

WEDNESDAY.

REMARKS:

Shem and Mrs. Ham beat Mrs. Shem and me at shuffleboard today. Score
100 to 23. They did not play fair. They always waited till the Ark was
steady before they shuffled. Broke my monocle while playing.—A little
mammoth came aboard. Boxed up the storks again.—After tea the ladies
patched the sails.—The male missing-link is down with the gout. Spent
evening looking at the family album.

[Illustration: “_Shem and Mrs. Ham beat Mrs. Shem and me_”]

THURSDAY.

REMARKS:

Today all the dog licenses expired, but we’re not liable to run into
any dog-catchers out here.—We played a new game tonight. Ham painted
a donkey without a tail on a sheet. We all had little tails made out
of cloth, and took turns being blindfolded, and trying to pin them
on the place where the donkey’s tail commences. I know I would have
hit the spot because I took a good look before they tied up my eyes,
but that villain Ham started me off in the opposite direction to the
painting.—Mrs. Ham says she does not like to ride on a ship with
patched sails.

[Illustration]

FRIDAY.

REMARKS:

Am tired of these continental breakfasts, and this condensed
milk.—Wish I had saved the library. I have read everything on board
with the exception of the old time-table, and I’ll finish that
tomorrow.—Mrs. Shem gave a tea in the music room this afternoon.—Have
stopped playing shuffleboard. Nobody will let me beat them at the
game.—The two crows like to roost in the lookout’s barrel. The crew
now call the place the crows’ nest. Put the scarecrow up there to keep
them from interfering with the work of the sailors.

[Illustration]

SATURDAY AND SUNDAY.

REMARKS:

We are spending the week-end painting the ship. I must live up to the
traditions of the sea.—Ham reported seeing a sea-serpent during his
watch last night. I don’t know about the serpent but I do know he was
in the buffet a long time before he went on the bridge.—The company
that sold me the coal cheated me. Their slate won’t burn.—This clear
weather is awfully monotonous.—We officers have worn a rut in the
bridge where we walk.—One of the big rabbits with a long tail and a
pouch appeared on deck today with a youngster.—Finished the time-table
this afternoon.—Took my bath.

MONDAY.

REMARKS:

Held a lifeboat drill this afternoon. The crew were not very rapid.
It took 1¾ hours to get the boat in the water. All the ropes were
tangled.—Had a talking machine concert this evening. Am tired of
the records. Wish I could get some new ones.—Not a very interesting
day. Did not take my watch this A.M. It was cloudy, and the
sun-dial alarm never went off.

TUESDAY.

REMARKS:

Another lifeboat drill today. Such a blockhead crew!—Still painting
ship.—Tonight I made out a new will. I’m leaving the Ark, my insurance
and bank account to my widow, provided she never marries again. Shem
gets my spy-glass, the charts, and this log-book. I’m giving my evening
robes, the engines, and the fish-worms to Ham. Japheth is to have my
razor, top hat, and other personal effects. I willed the beautiful,
plush-covered family album, some stock in the Damascus-Bagdad Oriental
Rug Weaving Company, and my mining stock to the girls. The animals and
the earth I divide equally among the family.

I gave some explicit instructions regarding my funeral. I want to
become a real fine mummy, bound in A No. 1, four ply tire tape, and
tattooed by a good undertaker. The case is to be waterproof. I make a
special request that I shall never be exhibited in a museum. But—I
don’t want to be a mummy for a few centuries.

WEDNESDAY.

REMARKS:

Tomorrow I’ll be a rich man. We are going to have a rabbit and turtle
race. Bet all the officers 5 to 1 on the turtle. I saw all the officers
winking, but they don’t know I got a tip from Æsop’s animal book. It
may be wrong to bet on a sure thing, but the money will stay in the
family anyway.—Held another lifeboat drill today. The boat was in the
ocean in one hour. That was a big improvement. Everything went all
right, only we couldn’t find the oars.

THURSDAY.

REMARKS:

Held the derby today. I’m a ruined man. Threw that nature-faker’s book
overboard. He was either like most authors, or he had a different
kind of a turtle. By jove, my turtle hadn’t reached the first hurdle
before the rabbit was under the wire.—Insisted on another lifeboat
drill. I don’t know what’s the matter with that crew of mine. Two hours
were spent in getting the boat in the sea. I’m not going to let them
practise any more.

[Illustration]

FRIDAY.

REMARKS:

The ice machine broke today. Engineer spent the whole day trying to
repair it. I tried also, but the engine was like a Chinese puzzle to
me.—The poor polar bears are suffering. Ordered the women folks to
take turns fanning them.—I am greatly worried.

[Illustration]

SATURDAY.

REMARKS:

Still Ham couldn’t fix that machine. Wish I had brought a good engineer
along. He says it works perfectly with the exception of making ice.
The ladies threaten a strike on the fanning business. The water in the
seals’ tank is getting warm. The seals and sea-lions are shedding their
fur. Have decided to take the Ark to the polar regions until the engine
is repaired. Of course, I couldn’t find the north pole chart. Shem’s
astronomy came in to good advantage. He suggested heading for the north
star. I just knew his education would come in handy some day.—Tonight
we are sailing northward and I wish we were there. This worry is liable
to drive me to an asylum.—Postponed my bath.

[Illustration]

SUNDAY.

REMARKS:

No time for services.—That ice machine still stays out of commission.
Ham blames me. It seems the rule book was thrown overboard the night
of the storm.—Shem tried to fix the machine this afternoon. He had
several good repair theories, but it won’t make ice.—Mrs. Noah
complains of two sore wrists. Mrs. Ham declares she never did like
polar bears. I think she would like to see the seals die, and then
she would ask for their skins.—We are going like the wind. Ordered a
forced draught for the engines.—Passed lots of stars. At this rate we
ought to get to the pole in a hurry.—Cooler.

MONDAY.

REMARKS:

No washing today. The ladies had to stay in the bear pits.—Gave the
seals an extra fish to keep them quiet.—Ham nearly drives me mad.
He has taken the machine apart scores of times, and puts it together
different every time.—Weather much cooler.—Mrs. Noah took our furs
out of the moth-ball chest.—Tonight we saw the aurora borealis. To me
it looked like a kaleidoscope.—The old Ark is certainly flying. We’ll
be at the pole before you can say Jack Robinson.

TUESDAY.

REMARKS:

Cold! The thermometer was frozen when I got up this morning.—We are
in the ice fields, and getting near the pole. The bears are relieved.
Don’t have to fan them any more. The seals are again contented.—Mrs.
Ham said she wished she had never seen the Ark. I wish she had her
wish. She is as much bother as an old maid. And I’m glad there weren’t
any good old maids to transport.—We are all wearing our furs.—Thank
goodness, I can sleep tonight and not worry about those bears.

[Illustration]

WEDNESDAY.

REMARKS:

Ice cold! My beard was frozen today.—At noon we passed over the pole.
Thought I would see something, but I was disappointed. Nothing there
but ice and water. I wonder who will say they discovered the place? At
last, Ham repaired the ice machine. I overheard him telling his wife
he had forgotten to turn on some valve. I am going to discharge him
as soon as we get on land.—Those bears actually smiled today. They
seem to enjoy the attention they have been paid of late.—Too cold to
promenade the deck or stand on the bridge, so I gave the officers a
night off.

THURSDAY.

REMARKS:

What the Medes and Persians say about trouble coming in bunches is
true. Now, the heating apparatus won’t work. Nothing like that ever
happened when we were down south. At 2.20 the hippo began shivering.
At 2.30 the metriorhynchus superciliosus began shaking. At 3.00 the
elephants shivered. At 4.00 the bothriospondylus madagascariensis began
shaking. At 4.15 the Ark shook.—We drove the birds to the boiler room,
and put the butterflies into the thermo bottle.—Surely poor Job won’t
have more troubles than poor me.

FRIDAY.

REMARKS:

No time for remarks. Busy hot-water bottling the tropical animals.

[Illustration]

SATURDAY.

REMARKS:

The Noah family slept in the boiler room last night. I do love the
fire this weather.—The Ark looks like an iceberg.—We’re going
downhill just as fast as those old engines will take us. Passed over
Spitzbergen this afternoon.—I can’t get down south too soon to please
me. I’m going to cruise around the Tropic of Cancer until I get thawed
out.—The women folks are dead tired. It does them good to work once
in a while. This is the first time they have done anything to pay for
their passage, and they shouldn’t complain. If that fool python would
only coil up, he wouldn’t take half so many hot-water bags.—Can’t
spare the hot-water for my bath.

SUNDAY.

REMARKS:

Ham burst into my cabin early this morning and said he had repaired
the heat. Ordered the hot-water-bottle brigade to stop.—I want to
sleep in peace tonight.—Services this A.M. Everybody went
to sleep.—Reached our regular course this afternoon.—I’m thankful
for lots of things today.—I’m thankful we are back here in the warm
weather, that I wasn’t left ashore, that the Ark doesn’t leak, and that
I haven’t had a mutiny.—Now, I’m going to bed. Put the alarm-sundial
in the trunk.

MONDAY.

REMARKS:

This warm weather is fine.—We had more excitement on board today. The
foxes broke out of their cages. We held a hurried council of war. I
was elected M. F. H. Shem and I put up the hurdles along the promenade
deck, and then I took the hounds out of their kennels. Mrs. Noah and
I rode the horses, while the others came along on whatever they could
find. My wife complained because she did not bring her riding habit. To
quiet her I let her wear my top hat.

We had a pleasant ride before the dogs took up the scent. Then the
chase began. The barking of the dogs was deafening. We finally saw
the foxes jumping over the hatches and rainwater barrels. Had a hard
time keeping up with the hounds, and I think we would have done better
if Yorick had kept out of the way. At last, we treed them in an air
funnel. Shem went below and smoked them out, and then we chased them
back to their dens. I was sorry I couldn’t get the tails for the
ladies. We all had a fine breakfast in the saloon after the hunt.

[Illustration: “_Then the Chase began_”]

TUESDAY.

REMARKS:

Stiff today. Guess I had too much exercise yesterday. I’m not as young
a man as I was a few centuries ago.—The goose laid an egg. It wasn’t
gold. I must have brought the wrong goose.—Tonight we held a parlour
entertainment in the _salon_. Ham did some tricks. I never knew he was
clever before. He took a rabbit, a gold-fish bowl, a pair of pigeons,
two white rats, and a guinea pig out of my top hat. It was most
extraordinary. I don’t see why I brought all the animals along if Ham
can bring them out of a hat like that.

[Illustration]

WEDNESDAY.

REMARKS:

Had a narrow escape today. While I was dusting the cow stable the cow’s
husband went for me. I didn’t do anything to make him angry. I was
only standing there wiping the perspiration from my forehead with my
bandanna. I didn’t study running for nothing when I went to school. He
chased me around the boat eleven times before I discovered it was my
bandanna that offended him. Wonder if that fool bull thinks I’m going
to carry my white Sunday handkerchief on working days?

[Illustration]

FRIDAY.

REMARKS:

Began taking soundings today—15 cubits of water.—We are just sailing
along in our own sweet way.—Escorted the ladies through the steerage
this afternoon.—Judging from the manner the dogs are scratching there
must be some baby fleas aboard. Won ship’s pool.

[Illustration]

SATURDAY. SOUNDING—14-9/10 cubits.

REMARKS:

One of the sponges was quite ill during the night. I soaked him in some
castor oil.—This morning I took a piece of parchment. On it I wrote my
name and address and a note asking the fellow who finds it to drop me a
line. Put it in a bottle and threw it overboard.—Fourteen more kittens
today.—Took my bath.

[Illustration]

SUNDAY. SOUNDING—same.

REMARKS:

Today is Easter. Held a special service this morning. Later Mrs.
Noah and the girls dressed in their new spring clothes and their new
bonnets. Those hats were sights. The ladies marched about the deck,
while we males had to admire them as they passed. I must say Mrs. Noah
looked a couple of hundred years younger than usual.—She gave me a
lecture because I wore my bedroom slippers on deck.—Oh! I’ll be glad
to get ashore.

[Illustration]

NEXT FRIDAY. SOUNDING—12 cubits.

REMARKS:

Have not written in the log-book for the past week. It’s a nuisance.
The company will probably haul me over the coals.—Weather, animals,
and family just the same.—Today I thought I would send out a bird to
see if there was any land afloat. Tossed up a coin to see whether I
would use a red or black raven. Black won. When I opened the window,
the raven quoth “never more” and flew away. Expected her back tonight
at supper time, but up until now (11.30 P.M.) she has not put
in an appearance.—Terribly worried.

SATURDAY.

REMARKS:

Confound that raven. She hasn’t showed up yet. That bird has either
found land or she is some flyer.—Put the egg she laid in the
incubator.—This afternoon Mrs. Ham told fortunes with cards. Had
her tell mine. She said I soon would travel to a strange land, and
that I should beware of a tall, striking blonde. She declared I would
inherit large tracts of land. She also fortuned I would have family
trouble, and that I should curb my passion for beverages. That was a
mean fortune, but I don’t take much stock in these soothsayings.—Ham
had a worse fortune than mine. According to his wife, he has dark days
before him, and he has to travel to a hot country and work like the old
Nick.—Took my bath.

[Illustration: “_Mrs. Ham told fortunes with cards_”]

SUNDAY. SOUNDING—could not touch bottom with the lead line.
We must be over some ocean.

REMARKS:

Services. Ham spilled the collection plate.—I wonder what is keeping
that raven?—Guess I should have sent the old cat. They always come
back.—Wish it would rain.

MONDAY. SOUNDING—hit ground again—11 cubits.

REMARKS:

No raven!—Today is the 500th anniversary of my marriage. These have
been 500 long, long years. That’s quite a while to live with one woman.
It’s our radium anniversary. Did not receive any presents.—By this
time I know all her faults. My, I’ve learned a lot in these years. I’ve
found that Mrs. Noah never makes a mistake, that I am always wrong, and
that everything has always been my fault. It’s funny how these women
have their own way. Grandpa used to say it was just the same when he
was young.—Just to think—everybody who attended our wedding—preacher
and all—have passed away.

Mrs. Noah dressed in her wedding gown tonight. It has come into style
again. It made me think how crazy I used to be about her. I was a young
skylarker then. She used to sing in the temple choir. Tonight she
reminded me of a few pet names I used to call her. If what she said was
true, I must have been foolish. I had to tell her that I love her more
and more as each century rolls by.

SATURDAY. Five days later. SOUNDING—9 cubits.

REMARKS:

The pigeon left on schedule time. I tied a message to her feet giving
my name and nautical position. She first tacked a bit to starboard, and
then took a crow’s course to land. At 5.32 P.M. she came back
with muddy feet and an olive branch in her mouth. Hurrah! the waters
are evaporating from off the face of the earth.—I don’t care whether
that raven comes back or not. Her egg hatched.—We had fresh olives for
supper.—Bath. COURSE—toward that tree.

[Illustration]

THE NEXT SATURDAY. SOUNDING—7 cubits. Everything will soon be
mud.

REMARKS:

Let the pigeon have another fly. She has either gone with the raven or
found another tree. Perhaps someone shot her.—My observations show
we are approaching land.—Ham is planning an expedition to find the
pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.—The women folks spent most of
the day answering their steamer letters, and reading guide-books. I’ve
been thinking those Peruvian llamas are going to have a long journey
before they get home.—The purser has sold all the postage stamps. The
postcards are also having a great sale.—Took a bath.

[Illustration]

SUNDAY. SOUNDING—5 cubits.

REMARKS:

Services.—Have been reading about Ararat. It’s a mountain 16,964 feet
high. Some authors say there is snow on the top. There must be some
mistake because olives don’t grow in snow.—Am not sure of the docking
facilities. Ham thinks it would be easier to stop the Ark in the
harbour instead of at the regular wharf.—I will be relieved when the
cargo pass the quarantine.—Got my money changed by the purser. Now,
I have to think about tips.—The women folks are bothering me about
the time of landing.—Some queer things are happening on the Ark these
days. I see the ladies sewing lace where lace doesn’t belong. Mrs. Noah
wants me to wear her necklace day after tomorrow. She never would let
me do that before.—Slipped two boxes of cigars in Mrs. Noah’s trunk.
No officer will ever think of looking there for them.

MONDAY.

REMARKS:

The ladies are bothering me about the custom regulations, just as
though I hadn’t enough troubles of my own.—Spent the morning packing
and making out my reports.—Gave the captain’s dinner tonight. It was a
swell affair. We all came in our evening robes. Ham drew the menus. We
only saved enough food for tomorrow. I opened some of the wine grandpa
made. Um!! We drank each others’ health all evening. Japheth made a
fine speech in which he congratulated me on the safe passage. He said I
was the greatest captain afloat, and that he would tell all his friends
about the line. Mrs. Shem spoke for the ladies. She thanked me for the
attention I had paid them during the trip. Ham tried to speak, but he
forgot it. He upset the flower dish.—In replying I said the passengers
were the finest who had ever sailed under me. Then I delivered the
regular captain’s address. I thought their expressions might have taken
a tangible form, but I was disappointed. We ended by singing, “For he’s
a jolly good fellow.” That meant me.—Sighted the Ararat lighthouse.

[Illustration: “_The Captain’s dinner_”]

TUESDAY.

REMARKS:

Passed quarantine at 9.15. At anchor. Ararat just ahead. Fine big
mountain, but very muddy.—Saw the raven and the pigeon roosting on
the olive tree.—We’re all anxious to get ashore. Guess we will feel
the motion of the boat for a few days.—I have decided to retire from
the sea, and go in for real estate. Business will be dull for a while,
but it will pick up in time.—I’m getting along in years to do this
pioneering work, but it must be done. Posterity worries me a great
deal. Why should it? What has posterity ever done for me?

The animals are making a lot of noise? They smell the green grass.—The
ladies are on deck admiring the rainbow.—We expect to land late this
afternoon.—I must stop writing, and get up on the bridge to whistle
for the pilot.

Well, if we ever have another flood, I’ll know just what to do.

LAND.

[Illustration: _Land_!]

[Illustration]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Log of the Ark by Noah, by 
I. L. (Irwin Leslie) Gordon

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LOG OF THE ARK BY NOAH ***

***** This file should be named 60630-0.txt or 60630-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/6/3/60630/

Produced by MFR, Paul Marshall and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
